# simple_shell

# Synopsis

This project represents a basic implementation of the shell.

# Description

Simple_Shell is a command interpreter (shell) that executes commands read from standard input.

# Requieremnents

Allowed editors: vi, vim, emacs
All your files will be compiled on Ubuntu 20.04 LTS using gcc, using the options -Wall -Werror -Wextra -pedantic -std=gnu89
All your files should end with a new line
A README.md file, at the root of the folder of the project is mandatory
Your code should use the Betty style. It will be checked using betty-style.pl and betty-doc.pl
Your shell should not have any memory leaks
No more than 5 functions per file
All your header files should be include guarded
Use system calls only when you need to.

## Authorized functions and system calls:

access (man 2 access)
chdir (man 2 chdir)
close (man 2 close)
closedir (man 3 closedir)
execve (man 2 execve)
exit (man 3 exit)
_exit (man 2 _exit)
fflush (man 3 fflush)
fork (man 2 fork)
free (man 3 free)
getcwd (man 3 getcwd)
getline (man 3 getline)
getpid (man 2 getpid)
isatty (man 3 isatty)
kill (man 2 kill)
malloc (man 3 malloc)
open (man 2 open)
opendir (man 3 opendir)
perror (man 3 perror)
read (man 2 read)
readdir (man 3 readdir)
signal (man 2 signal)
stat (__xstat) (man 2 stat)
lstat (__lxstat) (man 2 lstat)
fstat (__fxstat) (man 2 fstat)
strtok (man 3 strtok)
wait (man 2 wait)
waitpid (man 2 waitpid)
wait3 (man 2 wait3)
wait4 (man 2 wait4)
write (man 2 write)


# Usage

All the files are to be compiled on an Ubuntu 20.04 LTS machine with:

```python
gcc -Wall -Werror -Wextra -pedantic -std=gnu89 *.c -o hsh
```
Once compiled, to start the program:

```python
./hsh
```
# List of functions

execute_command - execute the tokens generated by our split_input function.

main - Entry point.

read_input - reads inpunt from stdin.

split_input - split input into multiple tokens.

find_path - finds the path.

endoffile - handle the end of file.

# Example

```python
cisfun$ ls
./shell: No such file or directory
cisfun$ /bin/ls
barbie_j       env-main.c  exec.c  fork.c  pid.c  ppid.c    prompt   prompt.c  shell.c  stat.c         wait
env-environ.c  exec    fork    mypid   ppid   printenv  promptc  shell     stat test_scripting.sh  wait.c
```
# Return

Our shell returns zero on success and non-zero in failure.

# This project Contributors 

.Abdelmaoula Talbi

.Mohamed Ahmed Zghal

.Youssef Sahbani
